Go ahead, I'm sorry.
Okay, well, just I was saying that we do 100% visual QC on the print of the volume, and the reason we do it on the print rather than on the digital file on monitor is because if a problem is introduced in the scanning or in the printing, it'll show up on the print.
In other words, the print won't be better than the file.
And we do that for every page.
We look at every page.
And this book again that we're working on, I think we got the title.
I don't think we did.
It's...
This book came out of the law library of Fred K. B. Dodge, D-O-D-G-E, of Toledo, Ohio.
That's a book plate.
Did you also scan the book plate, this page?
We scanned donor plates, not necessarily.
If the book plate only designates that it's a book from the Cornell Library collection.
This came out of the law school from here at Cornell, right?
Right, and was presented in memory of
Douglas S. Boardman, B-O-A-R-D-M-A-N.
And that originally came from somebody else.
So you don't know whether or not you did?
We did.
We scanned donor plates.
If this merely said that this was part of the Cornell University collection, we would not have scanned it because a new plate will be put in.
If it is acknowledging a donor, we will scan it.
I see.
And then the name of the book is A Treatise on the Law of Mortgage.
A Treatise on the Law of Mortgage, M-O-I-T-G-A-G-E Common, by Richard Holmes, H-O-L-M-E-S,
C-O-O-T-E, Esquire, and it's obviously filed under Coote, the third English edition by the author, and by Richard Coote, Esquire.
That's Philadelphia, 1850, Key and J. W. Johnson Law Booksellers.
Okay.
Thanks.
Just because of the place that I am in my scanning, I think that structuring will be easier to show you on the other...
Mason Warlock.
Hi, Mason.
Hello.
Can you give me your full name again, please?
Mason Warlock.
How do you spell it?
M-A-S-O-N-W-O-L-A-K.
Okay.
And are you an employee or a student?
I'm an employee.
I see.
What are the titles of these?
Scanning Technicians.
We're standing on the 7th floor looking at a spectacular view of a lake, and you're about to... Now, you're working with an archival document here.
This is a...
We're working on converting the collection of Ezra Cornell, co-founder of Cornell University, and we're working with his letterpress books here.
As you can see, they're very badly deteriorating.
The archivists and curators have deemed they will not retain the originals that they are interested in.
saving the information.
Are these in his hand?
These are either in his hand or someone has written them.
These are copies of letters that they sent out.
So what letterpress process?
These are essentially a precursor to carbon sheets.
Okay.
Which I've studied before.
James Logan's, they call them as letterbooks at the Historical Society.
So these are...
Ezra Cornell's copies of correspondence that he wrote outgoing, which are very important.
Yes, they are.
So once you copy all of these, then what happens to these books?
I believe they are not going to keep these.
Well, so what will happen to them?
We'll create a printed facsimile of them, and these will probably go.
They'll throw them away?
You're going to meet with Elaine Engst, the University Arthelist.
You can ask her about it.
But I'll leave their decision.
Now, we've done his correspondence, and those have all been retained.
I see.
But these, I think they're not.
Well, because these aren't necessarily in his hand, either.
They may or may not be in his hand.
Okay.
And how many volumes are there of these?
There are six.
Six.
And what periods?
You've got one up right now that's June 13, 1855.
Mason, you know, the letterpress process is to put a wet carbon, I mean, tissue on top of the original and have it bleed through.
And so, well, what we see is it's really been printed.
Let's see, Mason.
It's printed on the back side.
Mm-hmm.
So then you read it through the other side.
And you read it through the front side.
So it is actually the precursor to a carbon copy then, isn't it?
Yes.
And that's what it's called letterpress.
Yeah, was to scan the front side originally and then went to scanning the back side.
You want to tell them a little bit about what you decided?
Okay.
Well, as you can see, there's a lot of leap through from the previous pages.
So scanning the front side yielded not very good quality.
There's so much bleed-through that it's competing with the actual text.
So what I decided that I would do is try to scan the back, because as you can see, there's not nearly as much bleed-through, plus the actual text is a lot more bold.
So what I did is I scanned several things in reverse.
So the computer will try to allow for you so it can be correct?
Correct.
That's pretty good.
So as soon as this comes up, this is a reverse image of this page.
So I scanned it in reverse and then took it over to the next computer and used a program called Image Wizard to mirror the entire image.
And then I just brought it back here.
And what you get is this.
And you can see these are the same pages.
This is scanning the front side, and this one is scanning the back side in reverse.
And the difference in quality is... Okay, to do this, you are removing the pages from the volume?
No.
As of right now, I'm not, but I believe that these will be disbound.
But does that hinder your work to have them still bound as they are?
Yes, it does, as a matter of fact.
But these are just test runs for right now.
We're looking at the different type of quality that we can get
and what sort of... basically what sort of... Can I get a couple of Xeroxes of these?
Is that a problem?
Can you print out a couple pages?
So we're going to have a forward, a reverse, and a mirror, right?
I can print all these for you.
So at what point are you satisfied that you've got it right?
So you're making a... And how are you going to guarantee consistency?
page throughout the volume.
Are you going to be able to eliminate this stuff from the borders?
This sort of border, as you can see, has been eliminated.
We use a filter called reduced background.
I don't know exactly how it works, but it is able to... It sets the threshold above this so that this is interpreted as white and the rest of this is interpreted as white.
There you go.
And again, it's information here because you are not getting a true copy of the original, but it's been decided that a true copy of the original is... Depends upon what was the true copy.
I know.
The true copy is well went out.
It's reconstruct versus sort of keep it as it is with the passage of time.
I know, but there are questions that are raised.
Absolutely, there are.
And these are curatorial judgments, not our judgments.
They're made here.
If they told us they wanted this replicated, we could keep that.
So you're basically following the request that's been submitted with the... It's a negotiated process with the curators to get them to understand what technology is capable of doing and what the trade-offs are associated with any decision that they would make.
For our brittle books, we have determined that legibility over fidelity...
will be our criteria for capture.
Students under markings, you know, the yellow ballpoint, the yellow magic marker and stuff like that, we're not interested in capturing that.
We're interested in capturing the book as it may have been before the student in 1960.
Probably if you're doing a perfect job as it is issued, maybe.
Perhaps.
But for the math text where there were annotations by the authors themselves, we were interested in returning that information.
So these are negotiated decisions with the bibliographers or the curators.
Great.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
If you create a 600 DPI image of a text page, you're, say, a 5 by 7 text page, you're creating something that has 5 times 600...
3,000 pixels by 4,200 pixels across.
Monitors, even high-resolution monitors, are only able to project around 1,200 pixels.
So if you're sending 4,000 pixels to the monitor, you're going to end up with only a small percent of the image being displayed.
And so if you were doing a 600 dpi to a common setting of a monitor, like 640 by 480 pixels,
you'd get less than 5% of the image displayed.
So what we do is we derive a use copy for display from the 600 dpi image itself.
We basically send a 100 dpi version to the screen, and we add some gray to it because they're using color monitors, and it's the kind of light that is transmitted light rather than reflected light, and it leads to better legibility.
Cornell, like many institutions, is moving to a web-based catalog for its holdings.
So that as you come in to the Cornell online catalog via the web, you can do a search for a book or a journal.
You're familiar with Netscape?
Yep.
Okay.
Don't tell me you're going to be screwy here.
Here we go.
We did a search on Harper's New Monthly, which is one of the titles that we had scanned in this project.
If we go down here, we see that
This is an online networked resource, and this is the online call number.
So we say, okay, that's something I am interested in.
You could do a search for online sources and Harper's New Monthly if you wanted.
Here comes the web version of our catalog, and you can see there's a hot link to the contents itself.
It brings you to what is called the journal contents page, which basically tells you, you know,
These originals were at Cornell.
We just found them.
These are the page dimensions.
If there's back matter, blah, blah, blah.
I think this will become much more important to give signposts to the user as to what they'll be seeing.
And this is anybody who touches on here.
Can I get on this from home?
Sure.
It's moa.cit.cornell.edu.
And this is your website for?
For the Making of America Project.
Okay, great.
So, we have a range of journals, and we've come... I clicked... I'm sorry, you want me to go back?
I'll show you what I did.
Right.
We have a whole range of journals, and the first one is volume 80, 1889 to 1890.
And I chose one of the issues here to click on to bring over the bitmapped version, the digital version of the page itself.
And as you can see, I think it's quite legible.
These are still images that are fairly large at 100 DPI.
You get the full width, but you can't get the full length on the screen.
If you were to—you can actually—hold on one second.
We can view this image getting rid of a lot of the window stuff associated with Netscape itself.
I think this is a function of where Netscape is today.
You know, the newer versions have all this stuff over here on the frames.
This will advance fairly dramatically over the next couple of years.
But if you don't like the 100 DPI view, we have some other views that you can use.
You can go to 75%, which would be delivering a 75 DPI view of the image, which will shrink it so that you can get more of it.
image on the screen at a time.
It's still legible.
One of the interesting views is provided for those who are interested in browsing quickly, particularly those who are interested in the graphical content of publications.
These are 10 DPI thumbnails.
Are we frozen?
No.
Here we go.
That gives you 20 of these at a time and basically shows you
What I call this is recognition quality.
It's not legibility.
But I know this is the beginning of Harper's New Monthly.
I know that these pages contain illustrations.
It's very similar to when I, on my Word Perfect, want to see the text.
It's a page preview.
I just take a look at it and I'm looking at how it's set up.
And if I want to blow up that page, I can do that.
And then we can go to one of these pages and say, hmm, this looks like something I was particularly interested in.
and the 100% view comes in.
That's an original Thomas Heide story.
Yep, yep.
There's a lot of good stuff in these.
Yeah, but other stuff went off and got helped?
Any original stuff?
For those books that were not brittle, we were able to rebind those where the paper was solid.
Okay, this was a Thomas Heide story.
What was the name of it?
Um...
Well, we'll have to... The First Countess of Wessex.
If I want to look this up, where are we again?
We're in Harpers.
We're at Harpers.
And let me tell you which issue we're at.
We're at issue 475, December 1889.
Okay, good.
You know, I mean, there are those who say, gee, just in fact...
first appearance, Thomas Hardy.
I think what opened the door for this kind of process in a preservation context was the microfilming program, which in fact led to the throwing out of a lot of original material as it was put on film.
I feel more comfortable with the quality we're able to obtain with this.
And for some things, yeah, I think we ought to keep the originals, but
600 DPI isn't the answer for everything that we're trying to convert.
And for those things, where the intrinsic value or the sentimental value... Well, I see a decision was made here on the griddle, on the nature of the artifact, right?
Another library may make a different decision.
Oh, that's the same.
But this library has... There's probably a lot more than Hardy.
There's probably Mark Twain.
Oh, yeah.
There's lots.
Wordsworth, Byron, you name it.
Longfellow, first appearances of these people.
In essentially pulp-quality publications.
Yeah.
And the originals have been sent to a... And the originals are deteriorating, and they are not going to be around that long themselves.
Unless heroic measures are taken to...
restore them.
Which will cost you around $500 a volume.
Oh, that's impossible.
Okay.
I understand it.
What Gail is doing over there is creating an author and title index so that we can search for Thomas Hardy.
across all the journals.
Let me go back to... These are the journals that have been selected for this project, and the ones that are hotlinked are the ones that are up now.
There are a number of these that have been loaded in a test database that haven't been fully quality controlled
so we aren't making them accessible to the public yet.
How about Harper's Weekly?
Did you do Harper's Weekly?
We did not do, Alan, what was the deal on Harper's Weekly?
Oh, Harper's Weekly, oversized, and we had enough difficulty negotiating on large format material that we don't,
It got delayed until we couldn't do all of it.
But you think at some point you will?
Yeah.
Oh, yes.
It's in queue.
And when you do it, those originals are going to go off to the same.
You know, you were talking about Winslow Homer engravings that you can buy for $50,000 for these engravings.
For some of this material, we will look at, you know, again with our bibliographers and curators, what's the disposition of the original?
We don't make judgments all by ourselves on what happens to them.
I understand that some of these wood engravings and harpers appear.
I mean, I have a collection of homers.
And those probably would not receive the same kind of treatment.
So one would hope that somebody is going to enter this debate, this discussion at some point, and say, you know, letting the process here dictate
I don't think we are letting the process dictate this.
I think this is a decision made by our selectors on what can and what cannot, or should or should not be converted.
And you would hope that these are being done in a case-by-case basis?
Absolutely they are.
They sign off.
We do a Brittle-Brooks replacement program over here.
This material cannot continue to circulate, and decisions are made by the selectors for every
book that Joseph handles.
He doesn't make the decisions on it.
But these are the kinds of documents, the titles that, you know, there's some interesting ones here, Punchinello, Public American.
I'm familiar with these publications.
I look for them in junk stores and I buy them.
That's how you find wonderful wood engravings.
Right.
So,
At one point, some point then, you'll be able to search across Mark Twain for, you know, across all of these and come up with a list of the journals and the articles in which Mark Twain was either the author or the subject.
Terrific.
This is now recording at the proper speed.
Go figure, right?
Go figure.
The URL for the DigLive.
URL.
For the DigLive article on full information.
DigLive.
Right.
Article on the subject once again.
Digital conversion of library research materials.
Digital conversion of library research materials is.
HTTP.
Slash slash.
I mean, sorry, colon slash www dot D-L-I-B D-L-I-B dot org slash slash D-L-I-B again D-L-I-B yeah, slash October 96 October spell out or just O-C-T O-C-T-O-B-E-R 96 slash
It's Nugent.
Cornell.
Slash.
You're probably at October 96.
You're far enough along.
October 96.
Slash Cornell.
I guess we'll finish together.
Slash 1010 Chapman.
C-H-A-P-M-A-N.
Dot HTML.
HTML.
HTML?
Yeah, hypertext.
HTML.
Hypertext markup package.
All right.
But again, I'm raising concerns about the state of the original source material that we are converting.
What I would say is that these are...
informed decisions based on Cornell's commitment to its intellectual content and its holdings, and to a, you know, I think a fairly careful assessment of what we can and cannot do to preserve our collection and enhance access to it.
You know, I think it is kind of scary thinking about, oh, my God, they're destroying these things to create digital files.
But we are fairly careful about coming to these decisions in tandem with our faculty and our curators.
Is it being done elsewhere at this level, do you think, or is it just pretty much?
The University of Michigan?
Oops.
This is one of the leading institutions of digital library development.
I don't know if you've run across the project called JSTOR, which is one that Mellon funded, that Michigan sort of... JSTOR, J-S-T-O-R.
I got something on that.
For internal storage online.
Mellon determined that...
Okay.
Traditional libraries continue to fulfill their mission in the face of rising costs.
And JSTOR began with 10 key journals in history and economics, in which Bill Boller, the president of Miller, was able to convince the publishers to allow JSTOR to create digital privacy lists.
These are the biggies, you know, the American Historical Review, you know, William and Mary Quarterly, American Economics, whatever it is.
I don't know what it is in America.
Harvard provided the files that were... Harvard University?
Yes.
And now Joe Storr is...
becoming a non-for-profit entity in which they're expanding the base of journals for backfile conversion.
They must have a website, right?
They have a website, but it's a subscription site.
Harvard is a JSTOR participant.
They must have a homepage that describes it.
Yeah, if you go to the University of Michigan's homepage, you probably can find JSTOR on it.
It's kind of an interesting proposition.
The first phase of JSTOR was working with 10 colleges in which they agreed to take the hard copies off the shelves and provide access only via the digital format.
And now we're seeing this as a self-sustaining entity.
It's enough
universities and colleges will subscribe to JSTOR, a one-time only charge and then an annual charge to keep up the subscription.
And presumably, a number of them will let the hard copies go.
Sure.
I love the euphorisms.
We'll call it phased deterioration.
Phased deterioration.
which means we ain't going to do nothing for this.
I'm going to allow it to... I call it kind of the leftover syndrome, where you're not ready to throw it out, so you put it in the icebox for some reason, then you throw it.
All right.
What is fatigue?
I assume you're still meeting with the computer science people up in Sarah's office.
Did I miss that meeting?
No, I don't think you were invited, were you?
I think that you asked the question about your
You're director of a rare book and manuscript repository, and this technology role, and the role that they can play, and so forth.
And I am interested in that.
How does that connect, and why— And are they in conflict with each other, actually?
Yeah, and first, I don't think they are.
And second, I think we are particularly—
adept at what I think we should be using the technology for.
Because we really have dealt with a diversity of media and information from a range of sources and so forth, and over time.
And so archivists in particular have had to sort of face incoherent masses of material
and to bring a certain meaning to that.
Hopefully seldom artificial, but probably on the borderline, in order to make it usable, in order to make it manageable.
And so I think that in many ways the challenges of the digital environment are not terribly different from that.
There's a lot of different kinds of information out there, and what we really need to create are collections of information that can be used in some kind of coherent fashion that both allows you to identify the material, but also allows you to navigate within it.
And that's the same thing we try to do for that researcher that gets a box at the Jessica, is that they are able to navigate within these remnants of the human endeavor.
And that that is, that in fact we're faced with that same challenge in the digital environment.
The other thing that we have to convey, which I think unfortunately...
most of the people creating digital information is we also have to be able to convey context because the relationship between documents and that's really pretty I think that's very difficult in the digital environment and in the sort of flexibility of the digital environment it runs at odds I mean almost the esprit of it runs at odds with that and I think that's
But these are conflicts of practice, not of principle.
And I really believe that we enhance the value of the material through the use of the surrogates.
The surrogates being the digital versions.
And that, in fact, that really enhances the value of the originals.
That that enhancement filters over.
You know, I mean, I do not think that people substitute one for the other.
A fellow was in last Saturday evening with me in the vault.
I showed him the copy of the Gettysburg Address and Lincoln's on the hand.
He happens to be a real Lincoln enthusiast and so forth.
The thing he wanted to do at that point was to lead the Gettysburg Address in Lincoln's hand.
I don't think in the digital environment he's going to have an experience like that.
The words are there, even if it's a really good, high fidelity.
But this is about, this is a direct link between this guy in 1996 and Lincoln sitting at his desk with that pen in hand.
I mean, this, you know.
I mean, that's what he's tapping into.
I write about this experience all the time in my book.
It happened to me last week.
I handled Lincoln's Primer last week, a book that he learned how to English language with me.
I'm glad I was sitting down when this happened.
His fingerprints were all over it, and it was an overwhelming experience that is tactile and that is everything else, you know.
And Stephen Jay Gould told me that they actually made it the Smithsonian,
a copy of the Spirit of St.
Louis.
You think people wanted to go and have their, even though it was an exact replica?
No.
There's something about standing next to the real Spirit of St.
Louis.
And, you know, I don't know if you can describe that or verbalize that, but it is touching me authentically, the actual.
So I just see it as moving as another way that we
increase the use and usability of our holdings.
Okay.
And it's not at odds with it.
And this does lead us into something we didn't go over at lunch.
And it is pregnant, because we talk about how to maximize the value of your holdings, how to preserve your holdings, etc.
But, you know, this division that you direct also should have a mind to the things that are new things that it wants to collect.
Do you have a
I mean, do you have an active acquisitions program, a mandate of the things that you're looking for?
Or do you feel that your role right now is to maximize what you have and to use the technologies that are available to give a wider use and application?
Well, we hired a new curator of manuscripts just recently.
She arrives on Monday.
And you are interested in manuscripts and not books, which is probably the case, too, I would imagine.
I'm more—I mean, that's where I have more—that's where I personally have more knowledge and expertise.
And I usually gloss over the difference without much—generically.
There is a difference, and it doesn't really have to do with knowledge.
I mean, the fact is that the nature of most non-literary manuscripts is that, in fact, they were created to serve some other role than to pervert, you know, to—it's the difference between this and your book.
And that is a really big difference.
So I think we sometimes gloss over the differences in there.
The differences between books and manuscripts.
And manuscripts here are referring to non-literary manuscripts, to personal papers, and so forth.
But as far as when we hired this new curator of manuscripts, and I talked about what do we acquire and so forth, and why do we acquire it, and what's going to be your role in that, we could stop tomorrow and never obtain another item.
refocus some of our resources, and perhaps do a better job of preserving and supporting the use of what we have.
I think the role of acquisition is not just to enrich the collection, but it's really important to the way you think about your job, about what our craft is.
because it is the thinking that goes into thinking about what is effective documentation of various aspects of human existence that sort of, on one hand, it keeps your blood flowing, that you feel like you're in an active process, but also it helps you do all the other things,
It's thinking that wouldn't go on if you didn't do it, if you didn't think about what it is that we wish we had, or why would it be important to get this collection of material?
What is likely to be in that person's observations of the records of their experience, and how will that be used?
So I almost, I think we'd be a different institution if we stopped collecting.
And I'd be less interested in being here, even though I'm not.
Probably for my profession, I've got less ego involved in the reputation of our holdings.
Not that I don't care about it.
I don't think it's the same job.
I don't think you think the same way.
It's almost necessary to do it.
It's necessary to maintaining what we have and understanding the nature of what we have because I think somehow you'd lose some life.
It's part of our vitality.
So anyway, we've got to be buying some things.
We've got to be thinking about what's good.
And I do tend to think that you get more bang for your buck
You know, that it's a kind of a petty vanity when you choose to have one of X. And not that I can always resist it, but—and that's not really building research collections.
So, you should only go into a new area if you really intend to
In recent time, I've been at Cornell twenty-two years, so recent has some .
How long?
This division, the combination of the—I was for a long time head of the Manuscripts and Archives program in here, which was about fifteen staff members.
Largely modern 19th, 20th century materials, principally historical as opposed to literary collections.
In 1988, I became assistant director of Oldham Library, the building I came into.
And at that point in time, the rare book departments, there were three of them, started reporting to me also.
When we moved into this building, and we moved in in 1992, but in January of 1992, we became a separate reporting entity.
Those three existing rare book departments and the Manuscripts and Archives program, we had designed the building to support an integrated program.
And I really created a separate reporting unit that reported the university librarian.
And so this combination didn't exist.
While those other departments reported to me before, and I think I made some major changes in those years before that,
what we have now is only realizable.
And I did it very consciously.
I mean, I really the building was designed to support an administrative and a functional and a physical integration of those programs.
And, you know,
people said to me, well, there'll be no longer will there be a rare book department.
You know, everybody, and well, I had been head of manuscripts and archives for a long number of years before that.
And in fact, I was on the verge of being the longest person, you know, the person who held seniority, and it disappeared.
You know, in terms of what, for whatever that's worth, you know, I mean,
is that everybody loses something in those kinds of transitions.
They're not huge.
I mean, I don't want to talk about this as like it's the big, you know, I mean, this may not be like merging two academic departments.
But anyway, we did really make a very conscious effort, and we hired and
And, um, some of them are new and some of them, you know, have sort of been a few miles with me.
Um, and, uh, so, so anyway, so that's what I've been with, how I've come into this.
And so I really come from the manuscript side of our field.
and so I certainly have much more knowledge for that, but I also... They just result from different kinds of human endeavors, and then they have this technical multiple addition manifestation and so forth, which then further changes.
They're different when they start out, and then they're different in a variety of other ways.
So, anyway, areas probably the...
most distinctive new development in the time I've been here and I won't say that there haven't been others but is the Human Sexuality Collection and and while broadly conceived it has
had a particular focus on gay and lesbian issues in life.
And that's an example of where a donor's gift influenced the university.
It's an area where we did some
and prior to a gift.
But in fact, we would not have said that was an area of strength or an area of focus.
Some of it came through the General University Archives mission, and some of it came through the general representation of those issues in all our collections.
And so anyway, we created, but the university at that point in time, it was a significant step for a university to make.
And so there was about four years in which the gift was being considered.
And then essentially it was turned over to me to
at a certain point in time to sort of make it happen.
And with a certain amount of resources that were less than had been expected to decide what the focus in terms of collecting would be.
And we created a largely faculty
to assist us in shaping that and so forth.
But we also had a large gift of material that had already been collected by the Mariposa Foundation.
And I think that program has been very successful.
It's no longer unique.
I mean, each year after we established ours, there have been a number more.
So, in fact, there's even a competition for such material.
So, we went from being almost, you know, outside of the community-based collections.
With that particular focus, we were indeed unique.
And so— And lesbian stuff is everywhere now.
But now it is everywhere.
One can say, okay, well, do you think you changed the nature of what's preserved by the fact that you, you know, that you moved this issue along?
Probably so, but in fact, by the time the university got from the time it started considering to the time it decided to take action, the flow was over.
You know, it was like, you know, one day we were cutting edge, and a year later,
So that's the most obvious example.
It's really a good addition to our holdings.
It has a particular
and structural value.
And about when did that come over?
1988.
That's fairly recent.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, some of the material predated that because, as I say, an existing collection was given.
Yeah, and you had stuff that you colored, I guess, from all over.
Yeah, yeah.
We, in fact, and, you know, I keep,
I'm of two minds.
I mean, David Goodstein was the principal donor in supporting this, and one of the conditions of his gift was that, in fact, it not be limited to gay and lesbian issues, that it be human sexuality broadly conceived.
Now, what was this, a private collection?
Well, the Mariposa Foundation, which was essentially a research entity headed by Bruce Feller, who had been a biologist at Rockefeller, who at a certain point had left the academy and sort of—so they were a research and educational
And they just started collecting collections of people who had personal collections.
David Goodstein was the publisher of The Advocate.
He was the first Cornell graduate.
He was a terribly successful young stockbroker who is sometimes credited with the concept of program trading.
I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean,
And it sort of set him off on a different path, which was as a— Gee, such a remarkable story.
A political activist who then became— What's his name again?
David Goodstein.
Is he still around?
And, uh, of natural causes, or?
Um, I don't know, but he died relatively young.
Um, and, um, I was going to say, do I have a— That's quite a story.
—of his around.
Um, anyway, he was the first of
So, you know, he was a Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican, Republican.
I believe, did have family wealth in addition to making a whole bunch of money in a short period of time.
So I don't have a book of his.
A book that he wrote?
Yeah.
On what?
It's essentially, I know I'm kind of underselling it, giving it that characterization,
S, sort of, you know, sort of human fulfillment through, you know, control of mind and body.
Oh, okay.
What are you, New Age, Joe?
Yeah, New Age.
Only before New Age.
Before the term.
I can find it, though.
Yeah, you'll find it in David Goodstein.
G-O-O-D-S-T-E-I-N.
About when?
About when did you say?
52, maybe, or something like that.
He must have been in who's who of his period then.
Yeah.
How recently did he die?
He died in 1980, 1987.
35 years old.
Well, no, when I said 52, that's his class at Cornell.
So he's got another 22 years.
Math is my worst thing.
Not that young man.
So he was in his 50s.
Excuse me about that.
No problem.
Never trust me on math.
Yeah.
Of course.
As my colleague Elaine says to me, she says, if we'd been good at math, we'd be doing other things.
That's right.
I always, I made mistakes in my book on simple math.
God bless the copy of the machine.
So anyway, so David,
So anyway, I'm going to run out of my own time as well as your driving time.
But was this primarily a gay lesbian collection?
It was primarily a gay and lesbian collection.
He had books of manuscripts?
Principally of...
of manuscript materials, of individuals' collections and organizations.
Like writers and organizations?
Yeah, yeah, people who had been political activists of various kinds, some early gay and lesbian task force stuff.
Do you have any literature on this?
Yeah, we have a sort of one-page henna, but in fact this is—
This is the most recent newsletter for the collection.
Great.
It just came out this week.
May I have it?
Oh, please, please.
Excellent.
I can call this Brenda Marston.
Yeah, she's right down the hall.
So anyway.
I think we can wrap it up, too.
The tape is just about over.
It seems to be a good place to start.
I can call you, really.